# Docker Objects

Images, Containers, Volumes and Networks are the basic components of the Docker.

Images
---
Docker images are read-only templates with instructions to create a docker container.
Docker image can be pulled from a Docker hub and used as it is, or you can add additional
instructions to the base image and create a new and modified docker image.
You can create your own docker images also using a dockerfile.
Create a dockerfile with all the instructions to create a container and run it;
it will create your custom docker image.

Docker image has a base layer which is read-only, and the top layer can be written.
It is only allowed to create a new image on the top of the existing layers.

For more details:
 * [docker image commands](../codes/image/commands.md)
 #* [example docker image](../codes/image/exampleDockerFile)

Containers
---

After you run a docker image, it creates a docker container.
All the applications and their environment run inside this container.
You can use Docker API or CLI to start, stop, delete a docker container.

Below is a sample command to run a ubuntu docker container:

For more details:
 * [docker container commands](../codes/container/commands.md)

Volumes
---

The persisting data generated by docker and used by Docker containers are stored in Volumes.
They are completely managed by docker through docker CLI or Docker API.
Volume’s content exists outside the lifecycle of a container, so using volume does not increase the size of a container.

For more details:
 * [docker volume commands](../codes/volume/commands.md)
 
Networks
---

Docker networking is a passage through which all the isolated container communicate.
There are mainly five network drivers in docker:

* Bridge: It is the default network driver for a container.
* Host: This driver removes the network isolation between docker containers and docker host. 
* Overlay: This network enables swarm services to communicate with each other.
* None: This driver disables all the networking.
* macvlan: This driver assigns mac address to containers to make them look like physical devices.

For more details:
 * [docker network commands](../codes/network/commands.md)
---
